Cryptomatte-style ID + coverage pass — cost and correctness
Mac mini M4 (4P+6E, 16 GB), macOS 26.6.2, 2026-09-04.

Why
---
Spatial assertions used to SAMPLE: a few frames per second, and hope. A wipe edge crossing a face
for four frames is invisible to a 6 fps sampler and obvious to a viewer. The plan's answer (§6.1)
is to make the renderer instrument itself, so "the edge must never cross the subject" becomes an
intersection test at every frame rather than an inference between samples.

What it emits
-------------
An rg32Uint texture alongside the composite, written in the SAME dispatch:
    .r  present : bit i set if layer i landed in this pixel with any opacity at all
    .g  owner   : the topmost layer still visible here after everything above it composited
Cryptomatte's idea, adapted to a bounded layer count — with at most 8 layers, presence fits in a
bitmask and neither hashing nor ranked-pair storage is needed.

Cost: NONE, measured
--------------------
4 x 4K ProRes, 300 frames, same asset, same run:

    no colour management        86.4 fps      ->  87.0 fps with the ID pass
    OCIO ACEScg -> sRGB display   (83.4 fps recorded)  79.4 fps with the ID pass
    M0 gate (>= 30 fps at 4 layers): MET in every configuration

The difference at 4 layers with no colour is inside run-to-run noise, and the reason is already in
the record: this pipeline is DECODE-bound, not shader-bound. Two extra uint writes per pixel do not
touch the bottleneck. Verification that costs nothing is verification that stays switched on, and
a verification nobody runs verifies nothing.

The ordinary path pays literally nothing: `kEmitIDs` is a Metal function constant, so the ID lines
are compiled out of the non-ID pipeline rather than branched over. Both variants must be
specialised explicitly — a function with an unresolved constant cannot build a pipeline state at
all, which is an abort at first use rather than a compile error.

Correctness, tested against geometry known by construction
----------------------------------------------------------
  · a half-width layer owns exactly the half it was placed on, to the pixel, and its bounding box
    is exactly its placement rect
  · EDGE CROSSING is distinguished from FULL COVER — the distinction the feature exists for. A
    layer fully over a face is a deliberate cutaway; a layer over 40% of it is an edge across
    someone's mouth. Coverage alone cannot tell those apart; `edgeCrosses` can.
  · a 20%-opacity layer is PRESENT everywhere it is drawn but does not OWN pixels a viewer would
    read as the background's
  · a layer that does not fill the frame leaves counted holes rather than silent black

The honest limit, restated
--------------------------
This side of the test is EXACT: it is what the compositor did, not an estimate of it. The other
side — the subject box — comes from Apple Vision and is probabilistic. So a failure means "the
edge crossed the box", and whether the box was right is a separate, measured question (Vision:
22/22 faces on the labelled reel). The failure mode moves from "we never looked" to "the subject
track was wrong", which is attributable and measurable.

Reproduce: sharpy bench --asset <4k> --layers 4 --color ACEScg --ids
